## Website Name
itinker.tech
## Project Proposal
This website is designed to provide users with a basic education of the C programming language. On the internet, there are many tutorials on how to learn the C programming language, however usually these courses are large and hard to digest, as they include large amounts of computer science jargon, or they are paid for. Also, tutorials do not always provide practice problems which means that users are not able to try and apply what they have learnt. This website is designed to be a solution to beginners who have no idea on how to code, and have had no experience in thinking in the style of computer science. Furthermore, this website will provide a simple run down on the syntax required to make legal C code. This will be done through digestible pages of content, allowing users to absorb the information at their own pace, with actionable steps so that learners stay engaged, and improving user experience. After landing on this idea, consideration was put into how the information could be best presented. There were many options, however a blog post style website seemed to be the winner as it would be able to achieve the goal of teaching people about the C programming language the best. This is due to the fact that each blog post could be bite sized lessons that can be taken at a user's own pace. 

## Accessibility Features
Including alt text will help with people who are visually impaired. This will be easy to implement as HTML documents have a built in alt attribute, and users who use screen readers will have the alt text describing the image read out to them. To further help with accessibility, the website is entirely entirely accessible via keyboard, and users who are unable to use a mouse can navigate the pages with relative ease. This will be possible as most web browsers allows users to navigate websites using the TAB button and "click" on buttons with enter, and also with the menus made to be easy to navigate with keyboard only. This is to make sure that users who are unable to utilise a mouse are still able to navigate the website's menus without issue. Also, a search feature has been put in the UI, which would help users find individual blogs, however there not that many blogs, so the side menu links are good for now. This is to consider people who find it too much of a hassle to click through the menus to find the blog post they want. Modern websites may also have translation features, accommodating for users who are more fluent in a different language, however the decision was made not to introduce this feature to this website as it may cause misunderstandings of the main idea, which is crucial as this site is educational. 

## Website Hosting Solution
Instead of using a third-party provider like Wix or Squarespace, the decision was made to set up the domain and webserver for hosting the website. This is due to multiple advantages, like more control over my website's file configuration and more freedom to customise my website. Many features that are able to be implemented through code are hiddent behind a paywall with these no-coded solution providers. Furthermore, Third party no-code website solutions are quite restricted in terms of features able to be added, and also may deal with file saving issues and latency. As Squarespace and Wix update, these providers may cause changes in the formatting for the website. By hosting the files on a cloud server and using a personal domain, the longevity of the website is extended as the files are in full control by the developer. Utilising Github's Student Developer Pack, a free domain was able to be registered for free. The web server provider that was chosen was DigitalOcean, as it came with the Student Developer Pack. Debian was installed on a web server, and then nginx was used to be able to use the web server as a host for the website. From there, pointing the .tech domain to the DigitalOcean web server was just a matter of putting the web server's IP address into .tech domains. To actually send my files to the web server, I utilised linux's scp command. This allowed me to utilise the ssh protocol to securely transfer the local files to the Digitalocean computer. 

## Reflection
To start, choosing to write the website's code by hand instead of utilising a no-code solution may have caused me to lose time and may have caused me to produce a less aesthetically pleasing website. This is due to my lack of experience in HTML. However, the advantages of editing the HTML document manually were quite significant. I was able to learn a lot more about frontend website programming languages, like HTML, CSS and Javascript. Furthermore, due to the fact that my hosting solution is my personal domain and web server, I am able to have much more control over the file configuration of my website, making it much easier for me to maintain the website in the future. The user interface was made to be as easy to navigate as possible. This was done by creating many different ways to reach a link, and an intuitive home page design. 

Although there are platforms like w3schools and other online courses, this website is designed for users who have never even heard of computer programming or coding, and have no clue where to start. With w3schools, they have a lot of programming languages, and beginners may be a bit overwhelmed with where to start. In future, to avoid this problem, a recommendation page may be created, recommending different programming languages for different types of users, potentially adding a quiz for users to find the perfect programming language for them. However, this website is still currently only teaching C programming, so beginners will know exactly where to start.  

Due to the fact that the theme of my website is teaching people about the C programming language, a challenge was maintaining enough white space to ensure a good user experience. This is because there is a lot of information on each of the pages, and blocks of text will decrease user engagement. To help try and alleviate this issue, it was important that images appropriately spaced out the text in a way that each paragraph was digestible. Other elements like forms and tables also helped with this issue. However, too much white spaces was sometimes also an issue as the images sometimes spread out the text too far, and it would just be unpleasant to look at. 

This website is able to relate to the trend of blog posts that was quite common for the early ages of the internet, and maintained significance until recently, when social media platforms developed so people no longer had to set up websites for self expression. However, the decision to style this website as a blog should help users get an idea of pace of learning, as each blog post will become "lessons" that users are able to explore at their own pace. 

Choosing to code the website instead of designing on wix proved to have a few issues. To start, it brought up time issues as it took quite a long time to make the website. This is due to the fact that all the elements had to be manipulated manually. To help me, I downloaded a website template so that I was able to start creating the website without having to deal too much with other assets like Javascript and css files. Despite this, Javascript and css were still implemented inside the html file. 

Users will be able to navigate this website with relative ease due to the fact the menu navigation is quite intuitive. There are many ways to reach a page, so finding the blog post that the user would like to read should not pose to be a large issue. Furthermore, the UI is quite usable on mobile devices, however spacing may have altered which may have negatively impacted user experience, however the menus are still intuitive to navigate, despite the website not directly being designed for mobile devices. The addition of a favicon may have boosted engagement as users would easily recognise the tab of the website on the web browser they are on. 

## Ethical Question/Technical Question
There are a few measures put in place to avoid accidental erasure for the files of this website. To start, while developing the code, the updated files were pushed to a Github repository after every session, ensuring that if an accidental erasure occurred, there was still a point that could be rolled back to if there were any unforeseen circumstances that lead to data loss. Github repositories are hosted in the cloud, on Github's end, meaning that if anything happens to the owners of the website which causes data loss, it is highly unlikely that Github also experiences data loss issues. For another layer of security, the files are hosted on DigitalOcean's cloud servers, which are hosting the files that are accessed through the domain. This means that in the unlikely event that both local and Github files have experienced data erasure, DigitalOcean's cloud files will still be intact. This is in stark contrast with other websites like Wix and Squarespace, as these providers can essentially take down websites without warning, however in order for data to be lost on the cloud servers the storage holding the files has to be destroyed or wiped. Furthermore, DigitalOcean provides options to back up the web server, and as a result, even if all three previously mentioned preventative measures fail, there are still backups in other cloud servers provided by DigitalOcean. Following, a data erasure verification process could be implemented so that in future, new developers will have to have their deletions and changes verified by other users before the file is actually deleted. This could be done by having new developers work on a Github repository, and then having a team review the changes before merging the changes into the main repository. Also, in order to prevent malicious code accidentally getting approved, it would be beneficial for the security of the website if restrictions on who can submit code were implemented. That way, only trusted contributors are able to contribute, cutting out the possibility that a malicious actor can submit malicious code that is accepted wrongfully. Finally, files can be backed up on physical file hosting servers locally. This solution is quite robust as in order for the data that is stored locally to be destroyed, the server must experience catastrophic corruption or data erasure. With all these layers of prevention, the likelihood of the website’s files getting erased is almost impossibly low. 

Next, there are many negative implications and consequences of confidential data being breached and stolen by malicious actors. Firstly, companies would have to bear the legal liabilities of not securing user's data well enough. This would take up large amounts of resources and time to address affected victims, as if a data breach goes unchecked by the company or organisation withholding the data, class action lawsuits could have devastating effects on the companies finances, reputation and other important factors. Furthermore, the victims who have had their data stolen may experience many issues, however this depends on the severity of the data breach. Data breaches may happen when a malicious actor gains access to large amounts of customer data, however companies with effective security should not be grouping all of the important customer data into one file. To start, the less important data, like usernames and other usually public data can be stored in one file that is put under a simple password protected check. However, once the data becomes more confidential like patient data, passwords, phone numbers and emails, credit card information and address, this information should have other security measures like file hashing and encryption, hiding the contents of the file. Therefore, if a malicious actor was able to get the file of important data itself, they would still have to crack the hashes and encryption that have been put in place. Algorithms like SHA-256 and SHA-512 are able to use complicated mathematical equations that make it extremely difficult for the unauthorised users to decode the contents of the file. If basic information is leaked like usernames and other publicly available data, there should not be too much disruption, except for more spam emails. However, if confidential data like addresses are accessed, users may have their identities and accounts stolen. As a result, accounts may be utilised by unauthorised users to promote scams, steal more information and collect blackmail, which can be devastating to a user. Furthermore, if banking data is stolen, money and loans may be handled without permission, and this may leave users with an inability to take out loans and lack of funds. When there are large lists of data like emails and passwords, they can be exchanged on underground websites for money, essentially meaning that the user's data is being sold. This could be a problem as even if the original breacher did not have bad intentions, the person who ends up buying the data may use this data for illegal purposes. Also, if confidential things like medical records and addresses are leaked, the breach of privacy could be a major source of stress and anxiety for users. Unwanted advertisement also may become a problem, as a lot of the people buying these large databases of data are actually advertising and marketing companies, who are able to produce more targeted ads, as they have gained confidential information. This may become a nuisance to users, hindering their ability to navigate the internet without getting bombarded with advertisements. Following, there could be a possibility that a malicious actor sets up a network that takes the confidential information of the victim of the data breach, and uses this information to blackmail the victims. This could prove to be extremely problematic as it could cause victims already tight on funds to become even more stressed over the potential that their confidential data is going to become every more public that it already has become due to the data breach. All in all, data breaches are serious issues that have potentially devastating ramifications. 

## Sources
Information:
code.visualstudio.com. (n.d.). Get Started with C++ and Mingw-w64 in Visual Studio Code. [online] Available at: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-mingw.

cs50.harvard.edu. (n.d.). CS50x 2024. [online] Available at: https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2024/.

Doherty, E. (2020). What is Object Oriented Programming? OOP Explained in Depth. [online] Educative: Interactive Courses for Software Developers. Available at: https://www.educative.io/blog/object-oriented-programming.

Encyclopedia Britannica. (n.d.). C | computer programming language. [online] Available at: https://www.britannica.com/technology/C-computer-programming-language.

Hackr.io. (n.d.). Difference Between C and C++ [Head to Head Comparison]. [online] Available at: https://hackr.io/blog/difference-between-c-and-cplusplus.

Team, C. (2023). What Is Object-Oriented Programming? [online] Codecademy Blog. Available at: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/blog/object-oriented-programming/.

wikiHow. (n.d.). How to Compile a C Program Using the GNU Compiler (GCC). [online] Available at: https://www.wikihow.com/Compile-a-C-Program-Using-the-GNU-Compiler-(GCC).

Wong, I. (2018). How C Source Code Becomes an Executable Program. [online] Medium. Available at: https://medium.com/@isaac_70614/how-c-source-code-becomes-an-executable-program-f2e00ecf5c5c.

www.geekswithgeeks.com. (n.d.). History and Features of C Programming Language. [online] Available at: http://www.geekswithgeeks.com/c-programming/c-programming-history-features [Accessed 26 May 2024].

www.w3schools.com. (n.d.). W3Schools Online Web Tutorials. [online] Available at: https://w3schools.com/.

Images:
https://www.boardinfinity.com/blog/content/images/2023/02/C.png https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*wHKe6W4opLmk6pb7sxZz6w.png 
https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/D4D12AQGxLt3lZb-3FA/article-cover_image-shrink_600_2000/0/1693882752310?e=2147483647&v=beta&t=oIqV0XAIi0Wqb8-HAFjyPP8310CE2rBd5paDKSryqcY 
https://terminalroot.com/assets/img/windows/mingw/mingw.jpg 
https://www.adslzone.net/app/uploads-adslzone.net/2019/07/logo-inicio-windows-10.jpg?x=480&y=375&quality=40 https://www.vpnanswers.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/Connect-to-Linux-server-from-Mac.png 
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/18/C_Programming_Language.svg/380px-C_Programming_Language.svg.png?20201031132917 
https://microsoft.github.io/makecode-csp/static/010b16b23ea4e9d9474b1d6bb4969a52/518fe/ascii-table.jpg https://www.convertbinary.com/wp-content/uploads/monitor-1307227_1920-1024x723.jpg https://iq.opengenus.org/content/images/2019/08/decision-making-c-1.png 
https://media.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/20230302091959/Arrays-in-C.png






